PXB-2258 document --lock-ddl and --lock-ddl-per-table (8.0) (#1017)
percona/percona-xtrabackup: storage/innobase/xtrabackup/doc/source/advanced/locks.rst

.. _lock_redesign:

===========================================
``lock-ddl-per-table`` Option Improvements
===========================================

|MySQL| 5.7 has made improvements to bulk loading, one of these improvements
is the ability to disable redo logging, which increased the speed of
ADD INDEX operations.

To block DDL statements on an instance, Percona Server implemented
LOCK TABLES FOR BACKUP. |Percona XtraBackup| uses this lock for the duration
of the backup. This lock does not affect DML statements.

|Percona XtraBackup| has also implemented ``--lock-ddl-per-table``, which
blocks DDL statements by using metadata locks (MDL).

The following procedures describe a simplified backup operation when using
``--lock-ddl-per-table``:

1. Parse and copy all redo logs after the checkpoint mark

2. Fork a dedicated thread to continue following new redo log entries

3. List the tablespaces required to copy

4. Iterate through the list. The following steps occur with each listed tablespace:

>     a. Query INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INNODB_SYS_TABLES to find which tables belong

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    a. Query INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INNODB_TABLES to find which tables belong
```

Author: Fixed.

    to the tablespace ID and take a MDL on the underlying table or tables
    in case there is a shared tablespace.
    
    b. Copy the tablespace ``.ibd`` files.
    
The backup process may encounter a redo log event, generated by the bulk load
operations, which notifies backup tools that data file changes have been
omitted from the redo log. This event is an ``MLOG_INDEX_LOAD``. If this
event is found by the redo follow thread, the backup continues and assumes
the backup is safe because the MDL protects tablespaces already copied and
the MLOG_INDEX_LOAD event is for a tablespace that is not copied.

These assumptions may not be correct and may lead to inconsistent backups.

> ``--lock-ddl-per-table`` redesign

Author: Should I remove this section since --lock-ddl-per-table is deprecated?

Reviewer: No, the same redesign applies to 8.0, but we are encouraging users to use --lock-ddl instead. On 2.4 lock-ddl was only available on PS and on 8.0 it is available in upstream and PS.

----------------------------------

> Implemented in |Percona XtraBackup| version 2.4.21, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implemented in |Percona XtraBackup| version 8.0.22, the
```

Author: Fixed.

``--lock-ddl-per-table`` has been redesigned to minimize inconsistent backups.
The following procedure reorders the steps:

* The MDL lock acquired at the beginning of the backup

* Scan the redo logs. An ``MLOG_INDEX_LOAD`` event may be recorded if
a ``CREATE INDEX`` statement has occurred before the backup starts. At this
time, the backup process is safe and can parse and accept the event.

* After the first scan has completed, the follow redo log thread is
initiated. This thread stops the backup process if an ``MLOG_INDEX_LOAD``
event is found.

* Gather the tablespace list to copy

* Copy the ``.ibd`` files.

Other Improvements
------------------

The following improvements have been added:

* If the ``.ibd`` file belongs to a temporary table, the ``SELECT`` query
is skipped.

* For a FullText Index, an MDL is acquired on the base table.

* A ``SELECT`` query that acquires an MDL does not retrieve any data.

> 

Reviewer: Add a note that `lock-ddl-per-table` is deprecated on 8.0 and users should use `--lock-ddl instead`
